all right here we go all right
hi guys uh welcome to this video
basically what we're gonna do today
is something between um a presentation
and a sort of podcast
we're basically gonna add sort of visual
component to the podcast
and we're going to discuss today um
beyond the 20 rules so we're going to
use um
pyotr wozniak's very famous article uh
the 20 rules of
knowledge formulation as a sort of
backbone and we're going to add in
some of our own extensions to the 20
rules and we're going to do
a little bit of a item review we've
taken some of the items that we found in
our own collections
and also from andy matushak's orbit
project
and we're just going to talk about um
some of the good parts
um and some of the bad parts
so if you're interested in this uh kind
of content do let us know
one thing that i'm considering doing is
having like
people send in their items and we can
discuss them uh together
right if people are interested in that
sort of thing um
but yeah let's get into it and so all
right
for anyone who doesn't know about what
the 20 rules of knowledge formulation
are
they're essentially a set of very simple
heuristics
to guide people to create better space
repetition
items and they recreate this um this
guide was created in 1999 by piotr
wozniak
and it includes things such as don't
learn things that you do not understand
learn before you memorize and so on um
i'm expecting that you know
you should probably read this article
before you watch this video but
i honestly don't know how you would have
found this video if you hadn't already
uh stumbled across the twenty rules of
item formulation anyway so
yeah i mean if you're new to this and
you have not read the article
there is so much to gain by reading that
it's it's as if
you know you can you can skip so much of
the line you can
you can jump so far ahead just by
reading this this article and trying to
internalize many of the
exactly many of the rules so that's uh
that's a really useful thing to start
off with and
those rules are really good based but
some stuff is not included in there and
maybe if you look at it deeply enough
everything is included in there
because of the generalizability of it
but
in a certain sense it does seem like
some stuff is missing also which is not
a fault of peter wozniak it's just uh
you know things change over time and
people realize better ways of doing
things so essentially what xander is
saying is
this is like a passage from the bible
and we are like biblical scholars
interpreting an ancient text
that's exactly right we we are
we are space repetition theologians
exactly may come off
in the wrong way i'm not i'm not a
scholar who uses space repetition but
okay anyway so yeah that's the that's
the
that's the base of this and if you have
not read that article please do read it
and this goes beyond that or at least
attempts to
exactly um so the nature of the problem
um is that
srs item formulation is firstly very
difficult
uh pretty much everyone who starts using
a space repetition system like anki
or supermemo finds item formulation to
be very difficult
and the issue is is that um if you don't
have good item formulation you will fail
a lot of cards
and failing a lot of cards in a space
repetition system is extremely painful
because the the cards that you're seeing
day to day are
those that you struggle with the most
and
uh enduring that for a long period of
time will just cause
like the pleasure of learning to
decrease rapidly
um what a lot of people find is that
they almost have to treat themselves
like an ai for the first two years and
just train themselves
on hundreds of examples of items you
know
trying their own things trying um new
techniques for creating items
and after maybe two years three years
perhaps even longer
they finally reach a stage where they've
um found what sort of items work for
them
is that your experience too xander yeah
yeah that's that's exactly my experience
i think also you mentioned that if you
make bad items you fail a lot which is
extraordinarily frustrating i mean one
of the difficult pieces about srs is
that it's
really difficult to take on this habit
in the first place the
the habit of reviewing every single day
is difficult in and of itself
and then if you compound that with being
bad at it
essentially failing at your reviews like
most of the time or
large percentage of the time that just
adds on to the frustration and it just
makes it very unlikely that you'll
one gain value from this in any
significant sense and two stick with it
long enough
to to make good items in the first place
but also
in some way i think a more troubling
failure pattern that
goes it persists for a much longer time
and in some way it may never
truly be rooted out 100 is
getting the answer right in your space
repetition system
but it doesn't actually provide you any
value in life exactly even in the
situations that you would think it would
because it's not written in a way where
the underlying
concept is captured or the underlying
meaning is captured
and you just memorize it syntactically
so when you see the item you're
sort of memorizing the shape or
structure of it and you can answer it in
your space repetition software
but when real life asks that similar
problem of you
in different words you can't come up
with the answer or
the right stuff doesn't trigger in the
mind so in some way i think that's even
worse
than failing at the items because at
least failing you know that something
new needs to be done
but if you don't fail if you get
everything right if you have really high
retention
and yet it's still not providing you
value like
as far as i can tell one of the two
problems has to be either that you're
memorizing useless stuff so it's never
needed in life or two
it's useful but you're phrasing it in
the wrong way and you're learning it
syntactically instead of semantically so
exactly so it's possible to formulate
something perfectly but actually gain no
value from it
and that is one of the motivations um
that that uh sort of thought is one of
the motivations for creating this
presentation we actually want to extend
beyond
the uh 20 rules of item formulation so
was doesn't really talk about
um what things are worth making items
from
he's only concerned with formulating
knowledge
in this document um right so yeah let's
get into the review
and by the way the use of the word
presentation there is pretty liberal
where this is not trying to be
an ex an exhaustive presentation or
like really formalized advice this is
essentially a podcast specifically about
formulation
and then we also have some slides just
to kind of aid with the visuals but it's
not like an exhaustive
exhaustive presentation it's nothing
like that but we'll probably do more of
these and just talk about different
aspects of it so
don't don't consider this to be like an
exhaustive thing
exactly exactly all right um
so i suppose we can start looking at the
example items now
uh so the first one that i pulled out i
essentially just um opened up my
collection
sorted by number of lapses and
this one was very close to the top and i
think
um it's a very common thing to
want to memorize uh for for example
the date of some important event so i
was really interested in studying about
the history of
like science and technology right and
knowing key dates along the way
um throughout that history and so one of
the ones i pulled out was
when isaac newton published his
uh principia and formulated the laws of
motion and universal gravitation right
um the thing is you don't really need to
know this sort of fact
down to the exact date um
i i think it is much easier to remember
for example a decade such as the 1680s
or even the century like the 1600s um
by doing that you're creating like much
less of a burden
on the amount of stuff you need to
remember and you probably aren't
uh like reducing the actual value you'll
gain from such an item
yeah i completely agree with that
there's and in some way this is really
hard
to manage because it's hard to know in
advance
the importance of something so you may
only realize the lack of importance of a
particular year
somewhere after learning the year
specifically like
maybe six months later you go oh it
would really serve all the same
value if i just remember the decade and
as a general principle
the less specific a number is the easier
it is to remember obviously so
that's uh it's a tough thing but i
definitely agree
a lot of things the specific year isn't
of the most importance especially if
you're talking about something like
you know a timeline of you know
scientific discoveries things like this
and uh exactly yeah i definitely agree
with that there's something very
asymmetric
something that just causes numbers um
not to stick
to your mind do you find that
yeah i find that but also what can help
a lot is if
i i've heard historians mention this in
in different contexts but if you have a
lot of surrounding knowledge
about that time period it makes it a lot
more coherent
and so the years kind of slot in you
know so it
it depends on on your particular context
and
prior knowledge and this kind of thing
but yeah as a general rule
uh numbers are one of the primary things
that i
lapse on in general do you mind if i
slip in a little uh wild card idea right
here
is that okay oh yes please do it okay is
that warranted you know
absolutely all right
um i had this idea a while back right
because i've known for a while that
uh memorizing things like numbers
measurements
things that are specifically quantified
using a number it's very difficult and
asymmetric
so one of the ideas i had was to
similar to what you just said you
construct you memorize a bunch of uh
sort of similar
um items that give you a sense of scale
uh that's like the key term that i came
up with so
for example if let's just say you were
memorizing
the sizes of various objects um for
example skyscrapers you're really
interested in skyscrapers you wanted to
memorize the various sizes
so you'd memorize like the size of
objects ranging from like
the size of like the height of a book
then you go to a house
then you'd go to something larger
then you'd go to like the largest uh
building in the world and whatever
and you just have a sense of scale at
each item along the range
from smallest to largest right and in
different measurements like
centimeters millimeters uh kilometers
and so on what do you think about that
i mean i think it could work i i don't
actually know
i also think a shortcut to that might be
just using mnemonics
mnemonics this is a situation where a
mnemonic could be really valuable right
as a general principle you don't need
mnemonics because
if the information is coherent that that
serves as the
mnemonic itself you know meaning is the
brain's natural mnemonic right i've
heard very smart people say that yeah
i also have uh quoted that on twitter
and i heard a very similar
anyway so that's but this a year or any
kind of number
is a situation which a mnemonic would
actually be sensible to use
so mnemonics are are valuable in that
way and it could be kind of a cheat code
like if you have no
coherence around the number itself and
you just want to
force it a mnemonic can be a really
cheap way to do that so
your idea may work it just seems sort of
costly and
i actually don't know if it would work
how long do you think it would take
i'm not sure i'm honestly not sure it
seems like um
i wonder with the history example were
you referring to
something specific like i've seen some
uh pdf posted
i feel like we talked yeah i bet i bet
you you know what i was thinking of but
i was also thinking of other examples
but the example you're thinking of
if i if i'm guessing it correctly is
that example where
uh the person was talking about once you
reach some kind of critical mass
yes of historical knowledge everything
sort of slots in and makes sense
yeah i think that's a wonderful quote i
wish i wish i had it on hand i think
i think it's barry mazzore i will find
it and put it in the description
of this video oh excellent um but he was
talking about
uh like someone he knew who was studying
european history and they said that once
they'd reached a certain critical mass
of knowledge in european history
that it entirely changed their view on
the subject so what i'm imagining in my
head is that
that person has developed um simply by
just being immersed in that field
so long they've developed their own
sense of scale they'll know all the
dates and um
you know all the decades and the
important events where they were located
in
space and time you know um right exactly
yeah so perhaps just developing yeah and
it's it
oh yeah yeah i i completely agree it
happens naturally too like if you're
if you're really interested in a
particular person's life and you like
read a biography of them
all of the years start to make more
sense by the end because
everything you have so many touch points
like they did this and that year and
this and that year so
everything starts to make more sense and
uh yeah it's just a natural process but
again if you wanna if you wanna get past
all that uh
demonic would probably be sensible to
use oh and also if i could critique this
item
additionally to that absolutely you
don't mind go ahead i think you could
remove a lot of these words
basically what this item is asking is
what year
did newton release this yes and you
could remove you could remove all the
things that it's about and you could
have another item about
that stuff because you're not going to
remember that from this item anyway
it's probably fine but if you wanted you
could remove all that extra stuff
exactly it's kind of it almost comes
down to the question of like
is it worth the time to take it away in
a sense like
right right as long as it's not
interfering with um
it's not causing some sort of uh
interference with another item then you
might just
leave it in a less like less than
perfectly
formulated state you know yeah it all
depends on priority and it depends on
experience as well for example if you
have a lot of experience you may notice
like like i mentioned you learn the
shape of something so removing
unnecessary wording can
reduce that problem i think shorter
items generally
are less pattern matched or
um pattern extracted i think is a phrase
that peter wilson
uses in some cases here but anyway so
there's some
there's some experience in context
related things and priority related
things but
definitely if you wanted to and you had
the time you could uh
get rid of some of the extra stuff there
yes yes exactly
so um i've also included a
picture of the repetition history and
i'll be honest i don't know what all of
these numbers mean
but if you look at um
i will highlight it on the screen if you
look uh you can see where i started
where i did the first repetition date on
march the 4th
2019 and it says first and you can see
that
very shortly after creating this item i
failed it
uh the second time i saw it after
creating it and then
i got it right then failed it two times
in a row and so on
and i think that um when you see that
you failed something
very soon after uh creating it that's
like a massive warning sign that
something has gone hideously wrong i
think it's very rare that once you get
past
the well actually i can't say this for
certain
you probably have more information than
me on this because you've been using it
for longer
you know once you get past let's say the
fourth
repetition or third or fourth repetition
uh do you find that it's common that you
start failing after that
no yeah right
yeah definitely not if you if you make
it especially with the long intervals
that sm has like if you make it past
you know an interval of 150 days or so i
would say that
pretty pretty clearly resembles or
pretty clearly represents the fact that
you
you know know it pretty well it's pretty
coherent of course it's not always
driven
yeah yeah yeah and this just comes back
down to the
one of the simplest of was his
heuristics just like learn before you
memorize if you fail immediately
after creating the item you probably
shouldn't have created the item
because you create the item to
uh to maintain knowledge that you've
already gained
not to gain knowledge um in a sense
yeah exactly all right and also it's
worth noting
like if you fail an item a lot at some
point you have to ask yourself
is it worth it yes to keep this because
of the actual reps it will take
not here's the thing if unless you're in
school and you're being forced to do
this
you're learning stuff for the pleasure
and for the utility of it
and if you're constantly forgetting
something maybe it's not worth it
because like
with all these reps if you assume that
every rep takes five seconds
you know james would have already spent
a couple of minutes
on this item so you know it may not be
worth it and if you have a lot of
leeches
it can really ruin the process it can
become a very
joyless thing when you're constantly
going oh this item again i don't know
the answer i don't know the answer
and it just ruins the whole fun of the
process so
you know also if if something is uh a
leech just
remove it maybe maybe it's not worth it
yeah exactly um
sort of a uh like a good way of putting
it is that you spend
eighty percent of your time on twenty
percent of your items and those
items are the leeches it's just like uh
you know wealth disparity it's just like
um
like a power law distribution right now
right yeah yeah
yeah um all right let's go on to the
next one
all right um so this one
uh is an example of an item that has
sort of an ambiguous answer
it has um w d hamilton
and robert trivers in the answer and the
one the thing that makes this
especially confusing to someone who's
been studying
um like evolutionary biology or
something like that is that
i think i'm even having trouble
remembering it now
after having uh screenshotted this item
and made sure i knew i was talking about
um i think robert trivers was a student
of wt hamilton i think i have that
encoded as an item because it interested
me
and like they'd been um you know wd
hamilton had come up with this theory
robert trevis had extended it but
it just creates so much interference
between the two of them now
i i can't even really say for certain
which one of them came up with which
theory
which one of them is the student which
one is the uh you know the uh
postdoc advisor or whatever um yeah
yeah well i'll just say from my memory
that is the correct you you got it
correct okay that trivers is a student
of
hamilton so uh but yeah i can definitely
see how there would be interference
there yeah yeah yeah
so would you do you have any suggested
improvements
to this to to avoid that infra
interference um
[Music]
that's a good question maybe to since
all the items i have
they're always encoding a similarity
between wd hamilton and robert trivers
you know maybe it'd be good to find some
dissimilarities or some other relation
between them
you know something to uh
i don't know i don't know the mechanism
of interference like wha
what how you know what causes two items
to interfere with each other
you know uh what do you think
yeah it's very uh it's very strange um
i remember i had this item about two two
u.s presidents john adams and thomas
jefferson
died on the exact same day which was
july 4th 1826
which is exactly 50 years after the
signing of the declaration of
independence okay okay right and so
that's just like an interesting fact and
i had always gotten it wrong about who
died first
you know because they died on the same
day right then once i was listening to
this history lecture
and this guy mentioned that john adams
one of his final words was thomas
jefferson lives
and this guy noted i this guy noted that
he was actually wrong and thomas
jefferson had died a few hours before
that
and ever since i watched that clip it
like totally removed all the
interference for me and i
i just remember that and i go oh yeah
john adams was wrong and thomas
jefferson had died so
i it's something like that you need like
some sort of clarification
that makes it clear that the
interference that you're having
couldn't possibly occur so maybe like
you said a point of disagreement or
some some kind of difference between
them something like that where it's
clear
when you have an item like oh it
couldn't have been this guy because he
believes this or he
thinks this way or whatever it is you
know that's very interesting
that is very interesting um yeah it
sucks because you can't plan those
moments i
certainly didn't plan that it was just
like a serendipitous exposure to some
sort of
interference resolution so yeah it's
like
uh you were presented a fact that made
any um any confusion
about uh you know who died first
uh impossible to get wrong because
right yes yeah so you somehow need to
trigger that
if you have an instance of interference
you need to
uh resolve it by finding some fact that
um
shows you unambiguously that it cannot
be the case
in one way it has to be this this way
right yeah
yeah and i guess it all boils down to
just improved coherence of the whole
structure exactly exactly wouldn't it be
funny if i got it wrong
it's actually me well then you would
have to
maybe you could take uh you could
download the youtube video right
you take an extract that's the audio and
you include that in the answer
you know impossible wonderful there you
go exactly that you know that's a great
idea yeah
i'll i'll definitely do that awesome
all right all right forwards and onwards
ah
yes finally a good one or at least i
think it's good
uh this one is from douglas hofstadter
uh yep yep and he said um russell
believed that what about a mathematical
system was like a kiss of death
and the answer is self-reference or it's
being able to talk about itself and i
love this item
it basically came pre-formulated for me
by douglas hofstadter
and oh wonderful yeah he obviously
as we've been discussing at lengths
uh privately in the discord as well as
on the last podcast
golden nuggets podcast episode 10. go
and watch it right now
um yes douglas hofstadter he believes
very strongly in the power of analogy
he he did this amazing lecture that we
really enjoyed called
analogy as the core of cognition i'll
leave a link in the description
and he's basically talking about exactly
that how analogy is
just everything it's fundamental to the
way we think and how brains work and
that has prompted a lot of discussion
amongst
us and other people in the discord about
you know encoding
analogies similes those sort of things
making relations between
different kinds of systems um encoding
those as items
and whether that's valuable
in my experience so far i have found
encoding analogies like this
super useful like i don't think i have
any lapses on any of the
in fact yeah i included the repetition
history at least so far
no lapses and i have a bunch of similar
items where i've done
uh analogies between different systems
and they all seem to have
very good performance in terms of um
in the space repetition system
is that your analogies are wonderful man
not only do they help with memory but
they help with your understanding and
they uh
they go beyond that and they like i was
mentioning when your items don't
activate the proper time i really think
it helps
your brain interpret the underlying
meaning of the information
such that it activates at the
appropriate time i touched on this in
the podcast
but i think that's such an important
point i think technically in in
cognitive science they
they call it like spreading activation
or something like this i i'm not really
familiar but
i think these analogies you know it's
that phrase repeated analogies expand
constantly
and by expanding that concept one of the
side effects or maybe a primary effect
of that is
this increase in spreading activation to
you know semantically similar things so
that
in your in the course of your daily life
this item will activate
when it should when there's something
similar to this exactly
exactly so all right yeah that's
excellent
a reminder to go and check out uh golden
nuggets podcast episode 10.
i'll leave a link in the description
yeah we actually did cover this so it
would be useful to
listen to right anyway all right
i think we're moving on to some of the
items that i included here
by the way i just want to say thank you
very much for andy matushak's diligent
work on the
design of orbit so i could shamelessly
steal the color scheme and fonts
because uh now my items in superman will
look beautiful
so there we go they do look very very
nice anyway so each of these items
it just sort of represents a different
pattern that i think might be useful
again this is not exhaustive it's just
a couple examples of patterns that you
can use in items kind of like a template
just
use these patterns and or at least i use
these patterns and find them very
valuable so the first one is when you
need to remember a list
you know because a lot of people go oh
you never need to remember a list well
it's not true
there's often times when it would be
nice like
if someone said to me oh what does woz
say about you know inc
decreasing the amount of sleep you need
right i would like to be able to recall
at least one
thing that he recommends yeah right
because that's very useful
sleep is an important thing to me so to
me this is worth making an item out of
and if you want to remember a list which
i do recommend in a lot of circumstances
this pattern of requiring yourself to
name at least one or name at least two
it depends how many items are in the
list
and how familiar you are with the thing
and also how important it is if it's
really important
you may want to remember all of it and
you in addition to an item like this you
can also
have closes for each of the items in the
list so that you can remember them
individually
again it just depends on the importance
and the coherence
and the context so anyway this one is
just uh what is the healthy option for
decreasing the amount of sleep you need
name at least one and the two options
follow your circadian cycle
take well times naps i have independent
items
that support conceptually why those
things are true
you know when you follow your circadian
cycle those those that sleep is
more efficient so you require less of it
you know these kinds of things
and um yeah i just think that's a good
pattern for remembering
lists just requiring yourself to name
some number of them
and uh and yeah i find these kinds of
items to be
hugely valuable do you have any items
like these james um
i don't think i don't think i state
explicitly
name at least one and i think i should
because if you don't
then you leave it uh sort of ambiguous
as to whether you should
fail the item if you name uh
an example that isn't in the list if you
know what i mean right
right exactly yes it isn't the answer
yeah uh so i think this is a very good
pattern and i love what you said about
creating
items that support um conceptually
each uh answer in the list
right yeah each list item yeah i i think
that's critically important
because that's that's a huge part of why
i'm able to remember this list in the
first place because
i have that conceptual framework that's
propped up by these other items
in the mind and also the the utility of
that name at least one
right there you might say oh well i know
that when i have a list like this i only
require myself to name such and such
but one it's going to vary the number of
them is going to vary like i said
based on importance and prior knowledge
and things like this
and also you're just going to forget
that over time you're not going to know
whether it's important enough to
remember every item so
and and space repetition
it largely relies on activating the same
brain state at every repetition
so when you have this it's just another
clarification piece
for yourself to get to the exact same
brain state
so that it's more effective so i think
that's very useful pattern
and uh one that i've seen people like
andy matushak use and
uh maybe maybe woz has employed it as
well but i think it's very useful
pattern
so that's that one yeah that's a great
point like when you
uh um when you are doing your items you
want the
uh sort of electrical activity to flow
exactly the same way
across your neurons you know right you
don't want any variants yeah so you
don't want any ambiguity that's right
uh because otherwise yeah that's so
important yes
yeah it's so important all right
all right the next one here this one
includes
two patterns that i like a lot one is
the use of the word might
which seems kind of trivial but i'm
telling you if you try this out
it just changes the way you think about
the information that can
feasibly represented in an atomic item
you just opens your mind in some kind of
way it's like a
like a a bit of a tool so the word might
is very very useful and i employ that a
lot and then also this phrase first
principles
i i like this phrase for encoding
reasoning steps like there are a lot of
ways you could
phrase this item like what i'm trying to
get at is
the reason that intuitive judgments
about
certain things like social interactions
are more reliable
is because natural selection honed it
such that you know if you couldn't pick
up on certain cues
you were less likely to be integrated
less likely to be reproduced these kinds
of things right so
what i'm trying to do is capture that
line of reasoning and when i say what
might be a good
first principles first principles there
is just clueing me in like
don't assume a bunch of other stuff just
just take what we really really know the
first principles
reasoning and just trying to get to okay
i can trust my intuitive judgments about
social things right
very very good and so this item actually
feels really obvious to me now
and i can't tell why that is whether
it's because
of the item itself or maybe i just
already knew a lot about
this kind of thing and that's why i was
able to formulate this item in the first
place it's
hard to tell but anyway the first
principles phrase
can kind of unlock the way of thinking
about it in terms of the reasoning
itself and not just so much like
here's the fact and i'm trying to get
you to recall the fact it's more about
the the reasoning and that that phrase
unlocks that for me
very very interesting actually this is
kind of a superficial comment but
i seem to remember one of my very
favorite
public intellectuals um nassim taleb
saying a very similar thing
actually saying that uh time can act as
a filter
on uh on ideas so you know you can trust
those ideas that have been around for a
long time
how do you feel about that i think
that's great he said
he's a very bright man and i would never
say a bad word about him
one more thing i'll just say i i love
the idea of um being able to encode
tentative knowledge you know knowledge
that yes
might not be correct but for the purpose
of this
um item we can treat you know we can
treat it as a generalization
and we can just uh you know don't think
too hard about it like you just said
and um yeah just use your instinctive
judgment
exactly right the word might i'm telling
you this is a this is a major
key here this really unlocks a lot
because a lot of times
you want to encode some information but
it may not be
like the one true answer yeah to this
it's just one that you know and you it's
not like you know
everything yeah but it's just one that
you know so
using this word might it allows you to
kind of
frame things tentatively even though
they're not i mean i believe this is
technically
correct from an evolutionary biology
perspective so
even though i believe this is correct
the use of the word might just puts me
in a different brain state and it helps
me
helps me reason about it better and and
maybe i'm
not seeing things clearly on that sense
but i really do feel like the word might
is valuable
i absolutely agree with you and at least
from i remember we
we actually checked our collections
right to to see how these
might items had performed across our
collections and as far as i remember
you know with the data we've collected
so far they performed very well very
similar to the
analogy items very few lapses i think
very well i only had one lapse across
those items i think you had none at all
so very good performance yeah as i
recall i had none at all yeah
so and of course we may be inverting the
the causal relationship there who knows
but i
actually do believe these are valuable
so anyway um
i think i think we can move on to the
next one here uh
oh yes this is one from andy so this is
from
the how to write good prompts article
and i just went through it before this
on a fresh web browser so i could get
some of the prompts but anyway
i this i like this example a lot because
it's a place where i think
closes are actually useful so many
people
and this is without disrespect they make
the worst closes
that are just awful and not really
encoding any understanding or
or long-term value so i don't think many
of them are
valuable but anyway this example
really is a good use of a close in my
view
because look at this dude imagine trying
to phrase this
in a way that wasn't a close if you if
if that yellow highlighted word there if
you had to come up with that answer
in a way that wasn't closed it would
just be kind of convoluted
i feel like it wouldn't access it as
directly and
here i just feel like this is a true
good use of the
of the clothes because it's just
it's it's in the phrasing it's something
about the phrasing that connects the
whole thing
and the meaning of this is really clear
to me and i've actually thought of this
item
in my day-to-day life this is one of the
reasons why i believe that it's valuable
so i i think this is a really good
example of a close
because if it connects the phrasing
the particular phrasing there to the
meaning and it's not too convoluted in a
way that it would be if you tried to
convert this to like a q a
item you know what i mean i know exactly
what you mean i i really like this item
and i think the key for it comes down to
the part after the colon
because i kind of imagine um sort of a
beginner
srs user just creating the
item writing good prompts often involves
and then just closing interpretation and
not having
rapper after the colon that for me is is
great because it
it um gives you a definition of a very
concise definition of interpretation
and that gives you all the information
you need to
uh you know sort of hint at the answer
and right super useful yeah this is a
great item yeah
it removes all the ambiguity that that
part after the column removes all the
ambiguity
so i i definitely agree with that and
people you often see people in the
beginning making closes
like you say and they're just full of
ambiguity like it doesn't make any sense
the clothes can have
a dozen answers to it you know and this
is a just such a good example to me
because it's a it's a great use of
clothes it's it's not
many clothes are unnecessary you could
easily formulate them and have a better
result with a q a
but this it's it matches the phrasing to
the meaning it removes all the ambiguity
it it lines it up perfectly with the
surrounding context of the article and
the other prompts
i just i i think this is a wonderful
close and i think that's a good pattern
i
i have a hard time giving any hard and
fast rules but
just soak this up in your mind let your
neural networks figure it out
and maybe you'll have a better time
exactly very nice
all right so that's that one the next
one oh yes i like this one
here we go this is like a this is an
example so again if we
if we go back to that phrase repeated
analogies expand concepts
the concept here and i'm going to be
loose with this and just say
the concept is a focus prompt you know
what is a focus prompt this is the
concept of play
and just just roll with it here it may
not actually be technically true
but if that's the concept and we're
having an example
of that concept the example acts as an
analogy
and that analogy expands this concept so
by identifying
what particular aspect of this prompt
makes it focused it just really
integrates the meaning of what a focus
prompt is
so i i consider these example items like
what is this
or why does this act as this or what
makes this like this or something like
that
these examples can really really help
them and pull things into focus
and uh and just integrate the meaning of
it
yeah i agree i think this item would
really help you
uh understand you know uh
what good items are uh what's good about
it right good lessons
yeah so yeah and i guess the general
pattern at play here if you're
looking for a takeaway is like if you
have some concept
that that has some implication about
things that
that are going to be created or things
that you're going to do or whatever
just make an example of it and then
identify some aspect or
you know figure out why this is like
that or why it fits into this category
and not that category
or what distinguishes it you know these
kinds of things i think that general
pattern is really useful
okay okay so all right there's that
the next one here here we go this is a
i guess you would call it an application
prompt where you're pulling together i
many ideas that you've learned to
produce well you could say there's only
one idea here but let's just say
there's many ideas about you know what
makes a good prompt and
phrasing things like this so you're
pulling together all this knowledge
to create a new entity you're actually
generating something new
and i think these kind of generation
items there's another prompt in this
orbit set actually about
what knowledge is refreshed by like
generative
creative props and basically the answer
is
all the knowledge or or concepts that
you use every time you generate
an example so i think that's a really
useful thing and these these kind of
generation or application prompts
are really really valuable and if you
can find some sort of
micro uh micro
aspect of something you're learning
where you can generate an example
this can be a really valuable prompt it
can produce
so much new capability because you're
theoretically you would come up with a
new one or slight variation every time
and this may not be the best example of
that there are ones where he explicitly
says you know use a new one if you can
okay this kind of thing so okay anyway i
think that general pattern of
of you know putting together your
current
understanding of some topic and then
generating a new thing
based on that but it's very micro this
is very quick it's not like this is an
onerous
you know problem solving prompt or
something like this yeah okay so i think
that's a really good uh
really good pattern yeah i mean for me
i'm less
certain of it i think what you just said
there was very important that it's
something very quick it's at least
trying to be sort of atomic
um i often find that people try to put
in like math problems into a space
repetition system and it just doesn't
work because right
you're spending like like doing a whole
problem that takes like five minutes
there's something about the um
the fineness if you know what i mean the
fineness of the algorithm right
how delicate it is that just doesn't
work for these sort of bulky
problems um i don't know a better way to
put it than that but
uh it just seems to me that larger
problems
uh procedural tasks they seem to require
a different sort of algorithm
to atomic items would you agree with
that
oh completely agree with that and in a
lot of ways it makes perfect sense
because
how does the algorithm know what aspect
of it you forgot yeah so because it
can't independently schedule the aspects
if you get any of it wrong you may you
may remember
nine out of ten components but then that
one leads you to get the
answer wrong so the whole item is wrong
and now the whole scheduling is off
and it feels weird because you
understand one component of it so poorly
and the rest so well
yeah and it's just the whole balance of
it is off i
i don't think the memories work the same
because you're
you're activating the memories in an
inconsistent way it's not uniform right
and yeah there's a whole host of
problems with it
if you are going to do that also just
for the time of it
i would separate it out from your other
reviews because
it can be so like like for example if
you have to get out pen and paper to
solve like a math problem
in between answering basic questions
about history or whatever else
it's going to be so taxes you're just
not going to want to
yeah you're not going to want to do your
reviews at all so if you're going to do
something like that
create a separate and in super normal
terms create a separate collection or
in anki terms to create a separate deck
or whatever it is and
also it may affect the the intervals of
your other items if
the algorithm you're using is adaptive
to the collection which
the latest supermarket algorithm is so
anyway yeah there's a ton of problems
with it
and in an ideal sense you should break
up
all the the hefty problems into
micro problems and solve those and the
hope is that you have some items that
connect
the meaning of one to the meaning of
another and then the whole structure
emerges
and when you're presented with the
problem you can solve it right but i'm
i'm not as
hopeful about that it depends on the
context and
maybe for some people it's worth it to
do like
very onerous taxing mathematical
items things like this but again it
really depends on context and i would
avoid that if you could
all right that sounds very good all
right do you wanna wonderful
uh the final thing really that i wanted
to talk about was um
two things or really one thing that uh
is sort of missing from the 20 rules of
formulation and that is
the importance of applicability and
having like a meaningful goal when
you're learning with a space repetition
system um
so you've written an article about
the importance of applicability right um
yes what are your thoughts on
you know how important it is to have
something meaningful that you're working
towards
rather than just learning meaningless
trivia yeah there's a couple different
angles i could take on it the article i
wrote is about the importance of
applicability for
easy formulation because if you don't if
you don't know
where information is going to be useful
it's hard to frame it
in ways where the item makes sense and
is
good so you can look at it like that if
information is really applicable
it's much much easier to formulate in a
way that will be
durable so that's a that's a really
important aspect but
probably even more important than that
is like what is the point
of learning all kinds of trivia it's not
going to add up to anything and here's
what happens right
the hope that people have at least as
far as i can observe is
you fill your brain with a bunch of
disparate information
just based on pure interest right and
i'm not saying it's bad to learn trivial
things like this you can if you want but
like a lot of things about the world are
interesting but not a lot of
things are really useful to to each
person
so you fill your brain with a bunch of
trivia for years
and then it doesn't really add up to
anything significant and so the impact
there is your morale
really takes a hit yeah and so over time
you end up learning less because you go
oh well this is not really adding up to
anything i'm not really using this
knowledge
i don't really have any significant
skills that i didn't have before
so why would i keep dumping all this
time into this and i think that's a huge
aspect of it
it's just much more valuable and
meaningful and
i don't know just long term worthwhile
if you focus on things that would
actually make a difference in your life
exactly i completely agree i think
um andy has a very good note on this
that
you know the whole culture of space
repetition systems
is fixated on meaningless goals i think
it's a real problem
right in the space repetition community
you know
uh we need more people focusing on
using space repetition to write a book
do academic research do independent
research
just start a business you know create
programming projects or whatever that's
creative um pursuits are the frontier of
space repetition
um you know focus on that rather than
learning pub quiz trivia knowledge uh
right exactly it's like an intellectual
party trick yes it's like
i think and i hope i'm not being
disrespectful to people here but
it seems like a lot of people do this
because they want people to think
they're smart
which is fine i understand that impulse
i suppose
but trust me people will think you're
smarter if you do something useful
instead of
knowing all the countries of the world
that's not going to affect your life
and like seriously it doesn't matter
and just just focus on things where if
you knew it
you would get value from it not oh maybe
one time if this particular situation
happens to me
that's very unlikely to ever occur in
real life i would know the answer to
that
because i have this item now it's like
oh okay well
is it really worth it probably not
exactly and finally
you know knowledge valuation how do we
uh decide
what is worth uh encoding as srs
items how do we distinguish the copper
nuggets from the golden nuggets
i think for me a lot of this comes over
time of just
learning a bunch of stuff and then
realizing oh i didn't even use that once
and then you would start to build sort
of a generalized concept of
what something looks like if it's useful
you know what the feeling
of understanding understanding something
that integrates with the whole
in a way that is valuable
that's a distinctive feeling so if you
if you tap into that listen to yourself
over time i think that's a really good
way of doing it and also just get rid of
these goals of like
trying to remember a whole book it's
total nonsense
it's total nonsense and if especially if
you go into it
if you go into learning everything with
a micro goal i'm reading this book
because i expect it to increase my
understanding of this topic
right then every time what you're
essentially doing
is saying if i were to remember this
would this get me closer to my goal
of understanding this topic and so you
can compare it like that
and that's why these meaningful goals
can be really clarifying in terms of
what you remember and what you don't
exactly and what you spend time on and
what you don't yeah
for me really step one is to have a
meaningful goal
then you can value uh things
uh in a way consistent with your
overarching goal
um there's always going to be
uncertainty about
what uh what specific things are
going to be the most useful to you in
your lifetime obviously because you
can't really predict
what things are going to be valuable in
the future what things will lead to
creative associations
and ideas right that will allow you to
create
amazing things um but one thing
that's been on my mind that you can do
is perhaps you can look
at over time
in human history are there any people
who have similar goals to you
what did they do to acquire knowledge
what fields were they learning
and um you know what were the ideas that
allowed them to be
extremely successful and can you
try and learn those ideas and become
successful in the future as well
right yes exactly i i think that's
really useful pattern which is why
reading biographies can be a really um
worthwhile
valuable thing to do yep absolutely so
all right so all right i think that's it
for today
um i really hope you enjoyed this style
of video uh
we're super nerdy about item formulation
and this sort of stuff so if you do
enjoy it
you'll get a whole bombardment of new
videos from us because we love doing
this
um if you absolutely would like to have
your items
reviewed if that sounds interesting to
you then
feel free to send them in you can send
it to us on twitter or something or
on discord we'll leave our twitter in
the description um
again i hope you enjoyed this video and
i'll see you in the next one
bye